README.md, before:

# SecretsAdapter

A .NET 10 abstraction library for seamlessly switching between different secrets management providers. This library provides a unified interface for accessing secrets across multiple platforms without requiring consumers to have knowledge of the underlying provider implementations.

## Features

- **Provider Abstraction**: Single interface (`ISecretsProvider`) for all secrets operations
- **Multiple Providers**: Built-in support for:
  - Azure Key Vault
  - Infisical
- **Fully Encapsulated**: All provider-specific dependencies are contained within their respective packages
- **Dependency Injection**: First-class support for Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection
- **Async/Await**: Fully asynchronous API with cancellation token support
- **.NET 10**: Built for the latest .NET platform

## Project Structure

```
adapters-secrets/
├── Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core/              # Core abstractions and interfaces
├── Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.AzureKeyVault/     # Azure Key Vault implementation
└── Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Infisical/         # Infisical implementation
```

## Installation

Install the core package and the provider(s) you need:

```bash
# Core abstractions (required)
dotnet add package Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core

# Azure Key Vault provider
dotnet add package Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.AzureKeyVault

# Infisical provider
dotnet add package Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Infisical
```

## Usage
### Example Projects

Two runnable console examples are included in the `Examples/` directory:

- `Examples/AzureKeyVaultExample` – demonstrates configuring and interacting with Azure Key Vault via environment variables.
- `Examples/InfisicalExample` – demonstrates configuring and interacting with Infisical.

Run them by setting the required environment variables then executing:

```bash
dotnet run --project Examples/AzureKeyVaultExample
dotnet run --project Examples/InfisicalExample
```

Azure Key Vault example expected environment variables:

```
VAULT_URI=https://your-vault.vault.azure.net/
AZURE_TENANT_ID=<optional for client secret auth>
AZURE_CLIENT_ID=<optional for client secret auth>
AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET=<optional for client secret auth>
SECRET_KEY=<optional existing secret to read>
NEW_SECRET_KEY=<optional to create>
NEW_SECRET_VALUE=<optional to create>
ALLOW_MUTATING_TESTS=true   # only if you want write/delete tests to run
```

Infisical example expected environment variables:

```
INFISICAL_CLIENT_ID=
INFISICAL_CLIENT_SECRET=
INFISICAL_PROJECT_ID=
INFISICAL_ENVIRONMENT=dev
INFISICAL_SITE_URL=https://app.infisical.com   # optional
INFISICAL_SECRET_PATH=/                        # optional path/folder
SECRET_KEY=<optional existing secret to read>
NEW_SECRET_KEY=<optional to create>
NEW_SECRET_VALUE=<optional to create>
ALLOW_MUTATING_TESTS=true   # only if you want write/delete tests to run
```

If variables are missing the examples will exit gracefully.

### Azure Key Vault

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.AzureKeyVault;
using Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core;

// Configure services
var services = new ServiceCollection();

services.AddAzureKeyVaultSecretsProvider(options =>
{
    options.VaultUri = "https://your-vault.vault.azure.net/";
    
    // Optional: Use service principal authentication
    // options.TenantId = "your-tenant-id";
    // options.ClientId = "your-client-id";
    // options.ClientSecret = "your-client-secret";
    
    // Without these, DefaultAzureCredential is used (supports managed identity, Azure CLI, etc.)
});

var serviceProvider = services.BuildServiceProvider();
var secretsProvider = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<ISecretsProvider>();

// Use the provider
var secret = await secretsProvider.GetSecretAsync("my-secret-key");
Console.WriteLine($"Secret value: {secret}");

// Set a secret
await secretsProvider.SetSecretAsync("new-secret", "secret-value");

// List all secrets
var secretKeys = await secretsProvider.ListSecretsAsync();
foreach (var key in secretKeys)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Secret: {key}");
}

// Delete a secret
await secretsProvider.DeleteSecretAsync("old-secret");
```

### Infisical

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Infisical;
using Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core;

// Configure services
var services = new ServiceCollection();

services.AddInfisicalSecretsProvider(options =>
{
    options.SiteUrl = "https://app.infisical.com"; // Default
    options.ClientId = "your-client-id";
    options.ClientSecret = "your-client-secret";
    options.ProjectId = "your-project-id";
    options.Environment = "dev"; // dev, staging, prod, etc.
    options.SecretPath = "/"; // Optional: folder path within environment
});

var serviceProvider = services.BuildServiceProvider();
var secretsProvider = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<ISecretsProvider>();

// Use the provider (same interface as Azure Key Vault)
var secret = await secretsProvider.GetSecretAsync("my-secret-key");
Console.WriteLine($"Secret value: {secret}");
```

### Getting Multiple Secrets

```csharp
var keys = new[] { "secret1", "secret2", "secret3" };
var secrets = await secretsProvider.GetSecretsAsync(keys);

foreach (var (key, value) in secrets)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"{key}: {value}");
}
```

## API Reference

### ISecretsProvider

The core interface that all providers implement:

```csharp
public interface ISecretsProvider
{
    Task<string?> GetSecretAsync(string key, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
    Task<IDictionary<string, string?>> GetSecretsAsync(IEnumerable<string> keys, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
    Task SetSecretAsync(string key, string value, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
    Task DeleteSecretAsync(string key, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
    Task<IEnumerable<string>> ListSecretsAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
}
```

### Configuration Options

#### AzureKeyVaultOptions

- `VaultUri` (required): The Key Vault URI (e.g., `https://myvault.vault.azure.net/`)
- `TenantId` (optional): Tenant ID for service principal authentication
- `ClientId` (optional): Client ID for service principal authentication
- `ClientSecret` (optional): Client secret for service principal authentication

#### InfisicalOptions

- `SiteUrl`: The Infisical site URL (default: `https://app.infisical.com`)
- `ClientId` (required): The client ID for authentication
- `ClientSecret` (required): The client secret for authentication
- `ProjectId` (required): The project ID where secrets are stored
- `Environment`: The environment name (default: `dev`)
- `SecretPath`: Optional secret path/folder within the environment (default: `/`)

## Architecture

The library follows a clean architecture pattern:

1. **Core Layer** (`Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core`): Contains abstractions, interfaces, and base types
2. **Provider Layer** (`Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.AzureKeyVault`, `Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Infisical`): Implements the abstractions for specific providers
3. **Isolation**: Each provider package contains all its dependencies - consumers only need to reference the providers they use

## Exception Handling

All providers throw `SecretsProviderException` when an operation fails (except when a secret is not found, which returns `null`). This provides a consistent exception handling experience across all providers.

```csharp
try
{
    var secret = await secretsProvider.GetSecretAsync("my-secret");
}
catch (SecretsProviderException ex)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Failed to retrieve secret: {ex.Message}");
}
```

## Benefits

- **Vendor Independence**: Easily switch between providers without changing application code
- **Testing**: Mock `ISecretsProvider` for unit tests
- **Flexibility**: Support multiple providers in the same application
- **Clean Code**: No provider-specific code in your business logic
- **Type Safety**: Strongly-typed configuration options

## Requirements

- .NET 10.0 or later
- Azure Key Vault provider requires Azure.Security.KeyVault.Secrets and Azure.Identity
- Infisical provider requires Infisical.Sdk

## License

[Add your license here]

## Contributing

[Add contribution guidelines here]
.NET Adapters to simplify switching between Azure Key Vault and Infisical

Commit message:

Updated packages to be on proget

README.md, after:

# SecretsAdapter

A .NET 10 abstraction library for seamlessly switching between different secrets management providers. This library provides a unified interface for accessing secrets across multiple platforms without requiring consumers to have knowledge of the underlying provider implementations.

Nuget packages of this project can be downloaded from by private Nuget feed server: https://packages.neillans.co.uk/feeds/Public

## Features

- **Provider Abstraction**: Single interface (`ISecretsProvider`) for all secrets operations
- **Multiple Providers**: Built-in support for:
  - Azure Key Vault
  - Infisical
- **Fully Encapsulated**: All provider-specific dependencies are contained within their respective packages
- **Dependency Injection**: First-class support for Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection
- **Async/Await**: Fully asynchronous API with cancellation token support
- **.NET 10**: Built for the latest .NET platform

## Project Structure

```
adapters-secrets/
├── Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core/              # Core abstractions and interfaces
├── Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.AzureKeyVault/     # Azure Key Vault implementation
└── Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Infisical/         # Infisical implementation
```

## Installation

Install the core package and the provider(s) you need:

```bash
# Core abstractions (required)
dotnet add package Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core

# Azure Key Vault provider
dotnet add package Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.AzureKeyVault

# Infisical provider
dotnet add package Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Infisical
```

## Usage
### Example Projects

Two runnable console examples are included in the `Examples/` directory:

- `Examples/AzureKeyVaultExample` – demonstrates configuring and interacting with Azure Key Vault via environment variables.
- `Examples/InfisicalExample` – demonstrates configuring and interacting with Infisical.

Run them by setting the required environment variables then executing:

```bash
dotnet run --project Examples/AzureKeyVaultExample
dotnet run --project Examples/InfisicalExample
```

Azure Key Vault example expected environment variables:

```
VAULT_URI=https://your-vault.vault.azure.net/
AZURE_TENANT_ID=<optional for client secret auth>
AZURE_CLIENT_ID=<optional for client secret auth>
AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET=<optional for client secret auth>
SECRET_KEY=<optional existing secret to read>
NEW_SECRET_KEY=<optional to create>
NEW_SECRET_VALUE=<optional to create>
ALLOW_MUTATING_TESTS=true   # only if you want write/delete tests to run
```

Infisical example expected environment variables:

```
INFISICAL_CLIENT_ID=
INFISICAL_CLIENT_SECRET=
INFISICAL_PROJECT_ID=
INFISICAL_ENVIRONMENT=dev
INFISICAL_SITE_URL=https://app.infisical.com   # optional
INFISICAL_SECRET_PATH=/                        # optional path/folder
SECRET_KEY=<optional existing secret to read>
NEW_SECRET_KEY=<optional to create>
NEW_SECRET_VALUE=<optional to create>
ALLOW_MUTATING_TESTS=true   # only if you want write/delete tests to run
```

If variables are missing the examples will exit gracefully.

### Azure Key Vault

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.AzureKeyVault;
using Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core;

// Configure services
var services = new ServiceCollection();

services.AddAzureKeyVaultSecretsProvider(options =>
{
    options.VaultUri = "https://your-vault.vault.azure.net/";
    
    // Optional: Use service principal authentication
    // options.TenantId = "your-tenant-id";
    // options.ClientId = "your-client-id";
    // options.ClientSecret = "your-client-secret";
    
    // Without these, DefaultAzureCredential is used (supports managed identity, Azure CLI, etc.)
});

var serviceProvider = services.BuildServiceProvider();
var secretsProvider = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<ISecretsProvider>();

// Use the provider
var secret = await secretsProvider.GetSecretAsync("my-secret-key");
Console.WriteLine($"Secret value: {secret}");

// Set a secret
await secretsProvider.SetSecretAsync("new-secret", "secret-value");

// List all secrets
var secretKeys = await secretsProvider.ListSecretsAsync();
foreach (var key in secretKeys)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Secret: {key}");
}

// Delete a secret
await secretsProvider.DeleteSecretAsync("old-secret");
```

### Infisical

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Infisical;
using Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core;

// Configure services
var services = new ServiceCollection();

services.AddInfisicalSecretsProvider(options =>
{
    options.SiteUrl = "https://app.infisical.com"; // Default
    options.ClientId = "your-client-id";
    options.ClientSecret = "your-client-secret";
    options.ProjectId = "your-project-id";
    options.Environment = "dev"; // dev, staging, prod, etc.
    options.SecretPath = "/"; // Optional: folder path within environment
});

var serviceProvider = services.BuildServiceProvider();
var secretsProvider = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<ISecretsProvider>();

// Use the provider (same interface as Azure Key Vault)
var secret = await secretsProvider.GetSecretAsync("my-secret-key");
Console.WriteLine($"Secret value: {secret}");
```

### Getting Multiple Secrets

```csharp
var keys = new[] { "secret1", "secret2", "secret3" };
var secrets = await secretsProvider.GetSecretsAsync(keys);

foreach (var (key, value) in secrets)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"{key}: {value}");
}
```

## API Reference

### ISecretsProvider

The core interface that all providers implement:

```csharp
public interface ISecretsProvider
{
    Task<string?> GetSecretAsync(string key, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
    Task<IDictionary<string, string?>> GetSecretsAsync(IEnumerable<string> keys, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
    Task SetSecretAsync(string key, string value, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
    Task DeleteSecretAsync(string key, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
    Task<IEnumerable<string>> ListSecretsAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken = default);
}
```

### Configuration Options

#### AzureKeyVaultOptions

- `VaultUri` (required): The Key Vault URI (e.g., `https://myvault.vault.azure.net/`)
- `TenantId` (optional): Tenant ID for service principal authentication
- `ClientId` (optional): Client ID for service principal authentication
- `ClientSecret` (optional): Client secret for service principal authentication

#### InfisicalOptions

- `SiteUrl`: The Infisical site URL (default: `https://app.infisical.com`)
- `ClientId` (required): The client ID for authentication
- `ClientSecret` (required): The client secret for authentication
- `ProjectId` (required): The project ID where secrets are stored
- `Environment`: The environment name (default: `dev`)
- `SecretPath`: Optional secret path/folder within the environment (default: `/`)

## Architecture

The library follows a clean architecture pattern:

1. **Core Layer** (`Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Core`): Contains abstractions, interfaces, and base types
2. **Provider Layer** (`Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.AzureKeyVault`, `Neillans.Adapters.Secrets.Infisical`): Implements the abstractions for specific providers
3. **Isolation**: Each provider package contains all its dependencies - consumers only need to reference the providers they use

## Exception Handling

All providers throw `SecretsProviderException` when an operation fails (except when a secret is not found, which returns `null`). This provides a consistent exception handling experience across all providers.

```csharp
try
{
    var secret = await secretsProvider.GetSecretAsync("my-secret");
}
catch (SecretsProviderException ex)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Failed to retrieve secret: {ex.Message}");
}
```

## Benefits

- **Vendor Independence**: Easily switch between providers without changing application code
- **Testing**: Mock `ISecretsProvider` for unit tests
- **Flexibility**: Support multiple providers in the same application
- **Clean Code**: No provider-specific code in your business logic
- **Type Safety**: Strongly-typed configuration options

## Requirements

- .NET 10.0 or later
- Azure Key Vault provider requires Azure.Security.KeyVault.Secrets and Azure.Identity
- Infisical provider requires Infisical.Sdk

## License

[Add your license here]

## Contributing

[Add contribution guidelines here]
.NET Adapters to simplify switching between Azure Key Vault and Infisical
